README.md, before:

# Macro

**Macro** is a bottom-up, multi-sectoral infrastructure optimization model for macro-energy systems. It co-optimizes the design and operation of user-defined models of multi-sector energy systems and networks. Macro allows users to explore the impact of changing energy policies, technologies, demand patterns, and other factors on an energy system as a whole and as separate sectors.

## Features

The Macro development team have built on their experience developing the [GenX](https://github.com/GenXProject/GenX.jl) and [Dolphyn](https://github.com/macroenergy/Dolphyn.jl) models to develop a new architecture which is easier and faster to expand to new energy technologies, policies, and sectors.

Macro's key features are:

- **Graph-based representation** of the energy system, facilitating clear representation and analysis of energy and mass flows between sectors.
- **"Plug and play" flexibility** for integrating new technologies and sectors, including electricity, hydrogen, heat, and transport.
- **High spatial and temporal resolution** to accurately capture sector dynamics.
- Designed for **distributed computing** to enable large-scale optimizations.
- Tailored **Benders decomposition** framework for optimization.
- **Open-source** built using Julia and JuMP.

## Citing Macro

If you use Macro, please cite the current version and software paper. Both citations are available in the "About" section of the GitHub repository. We have submitted a peer-reviewed paper describing Macro, but please cite the preprint in the meantime.

## Installation

Macro is not currently released as a Julia package, so must be downloaded and installed manually.

To install Macro, please follow the installation instructions in the documentation, [on the Getting Started / Installation page.](https://macroenergy.github.io/MacroEnergy.jl/dev/Getting%20Started/2_installation/)

## Learning to use Macro

### Documentation

The Macro documentation [can be found here.](https://macroenergy.github.io/MacroEnergy.jl/). The documentation contains five main resources:

- A getting started section, which shows you how to install and run Macro.
- Guides, which walk you through how to achieve specfic tasks using Macro.
- A manual, which describes all the components and features of Macro in detail.
- Tutorials, which are extended guides with worked examples
- A function reference, which etails the API and functions available with Macro.

### Bug reports

Please report any bugs or new feature requrests on [the Issues page of this repository](https://github.com/macroenergy/MacroEnergy.jl/issues).

Commit message:

Move paper citation to README.md

README.md, after:

# Macro

**Macro** is a bottom-up, multi-sectoral infrastructure optimization model for macro-energy systems. It co-optimizes the design and operation of user-defined models of multi-sector energy systems and networks. Macro allows users to explore the impact of changing energy policies, technologies, demand patterns, and other factors on an energy system as a whole and as separate sectors.

## Features

The Macro development team have built on their experience developing the [GenX](https://github.com/GenXProject/GenX.jl) and [Dolphyn](https://github.com/macroenergy/Dolphyn.jl) models to develop a new architecture which is easier and faster to expand to new energy technologies, policies, and sectors.

Macro's key features are:

- **Graph-based representation** of the energy system, facilitating clear representation and analysis of energy and mass flows between sectors.
- **"Plug and play" flexibility** for integrating new technologies and sectors, including electricity, hydrogen, heat, and transport.
- **High spatial and temporal resolution** to accurately capture sector dynamics.
- Designed for **distributed computing** to enable large-scale optimizations.
- Tailored **Benders decomposition** framework for optimization.
- **Open-source** built using Julia and JuMP.

## Citing Macro

If you use Macro, please cite the current version of the software and the software paper.

The version citation is available in the "About" section of the GitHub repository.

We have submitted a peer-reviewed paper describing Macro, but please cite the preprint in the meantime:

@article{macdonald2025macroenergy,
  title={MacroEnergy. jl: A large-scale multi-sector energy system framework},
  author={Macdonald, Ruaridh and Pecci, Filippo and Bonaldo, Luca and Law, Jun Wen and Weng, Yu and Mallapragada, Dharik and Jenkins, Jesse},
  journal={arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.21943},
  year={2025}
}

## Installation

Macro is not currently released as a Julia package, so must be downloaded and installed manually.

To install Macro, please follow the installation instructions in the documentation, [on the Getting Started / Installation page.](https://macroenergy.github.io/MacroEnergy.jl/dev/Getting%20Started/2_installation/)

## Learning to use Macro

### Documentation

The Macro documentation [can be found here.](https://macroenergy.github.io/MacroEnergy.jl/). The documentation contains five main resources:

- A getting started section, which shows you how to install and run Macro.
- Guides, which walk you through how to achieve specfic tasks using Macro.
- A manual, which describes all the components and features of Macro in detail.
- Tutorials, which are extended guides with worked examples
- A function reference, which etails the API and functions available with Macro.

### Bug reports

Please report any bugs or new feature requrests on [the Issues page of this repository](https://github.com/macroenergy/MacroEnergy.jl/issues).
